# Soil-Management
Agriculture is an important sector of Indian economy as it contributes about 17% to the total GDP and provide employment to over 60% of the population
a.	According to some reports "The global demand for food is expected to increase by 70% by 2050". One of the biggest challenges that we're facing in agriculture sector in India is low yield. India's farm yield is (30-50) % lower than that of developed nations. There are many reasons behind this and one of the reasons is "Decrease in soil Fertility due to over-fertilization and excessive use of pesticides."
b.	Farming is one of the major sectors that influences a country’s economic growth.
In country like India, majority of the population is dependent on agriculture for their livelihood. Many new technologies, such as Machine Learning are being implemented into agriculture so that it is easier for farmers to grow and maximize their yield.
Machine learning in agriculture can help in analysing large data sets and enable producers, field managers to make better decisions, improve crop performance and mitigate food safety concerns. With machine learning-based agricultural practices, making crop quality evaluations, yield estimates, disease predictions, etc becomes easier for agribusinesses. The global agriculture industry is at a critical juncture. According to the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, around 660 million people may be facing hunger in 2030. There is an urgent need to redefine our agricultural practices in order to meet the food demands of a rising population. The best way to do this is by accessing information and finding out patterns in every aspect of food production. Machine learning algorithms can assess numerous images, videos, data sets, and other farm information to identify trends in various Agri functions. This method of data assessment and pattern recognition can be useful in selecting the right crop and obtaining accurate yield quality estimates. Problems related to crop and soil health can also be predicted and resolved well in advance with the help of machine learning in agriculture.
In this project, we’re building a recommendation system in which the following applications are implemented: -
1.Crop recommendation 
2. Fertilizer recommendation 
In the crop recommendation application, the farmer can provide the soil data from their side and the application will predict which crop should the farmer grow.
For the fertilizer recommendation application, the farmer can input the soil data and the type of crop they are growing, and the application will predict what the soil lacks or has excess of and will recommend improvements.
